ICR is what I've been referring to the most so it'll be mentioned a lot here.
The questions are wide ranging.

Re analysed data according to code

Why are there so many missing values? Their abscence makes it difficult to calculate
meaningful results.
    Should they be considered zero or none?
    Should they be imputed? Would that work with so little data? What is imputation for?
    Is the method of imputing data what we want? Linear imputation.

How to determine what is signficant? The values set for ICR reveal little.
The ICR paper seems to say the various limits (q < 0.01 for yes, q > 0.01 and std dev < 0.05
for no) were determined by GO term enrichment analysis but the supplementary data (3) is hard to
interpret.

Why was Nocodozole used? How should the data be analysed?

The stage names aren't related to a cell cycle stage like the ICR ones.
    ICR states 'The cell cycle phase for each timepoint was defined by a combination of
    flow cytometry profiles and protein abundance data from the MS analysis'.
    If none, how do we know what percentage of the cells were actually synchronised?
    ICR paper says using flow cytometry before MS analysis reveals G1 cells only 8-16%
    of S and G2/M cells.
Why are there so many Palbs? ICR says it works on G1 but not others.



Is there any data about the data capture process available?

What proportion of the paper should be about the cell cycle in general, and what to the experiment?

What is Figure 4 c?

Should I do a comparisong with other papers, as per ICR? Maybe just with one paper?

min-max and impute values are calculated differently in proteo and phospho. And position_abundances?
    Which is correct?
    Proteo uses ABUNDANCES_NORMALISED_LOG2_MEAN
    Phospho uses ABUNDANCES_NORMALISED_MIN_MAX

What should phosphosite be for SL?
Is Precursor.Id the correct field to use for identifying a mod? What field for phosphosite?

What to do about all the bugs? Mention them in the paper?
    Should I leave in all the code for ICR, such as for generating correct results?

Bugs:

Mean
Median
Variation in imputed and min-max between protein and phospho
The linear imputation wraps round at the upper end
Various values not calculated when they could be do to try-except structure

ICR paper says:

'Additionally, we detected 15,424 phosphorylation events, with 13,299
con dently assigned to a speci c residue, also exhibiting high repro-
ducibility within the replicates of each time point (Fig. 1D).'
    How was this done? Fig 1D is a PCA chart.

How does kinase prediction work?
